Deep neural networks (DNNs) have recently demonstrated a keen ability for inferring the properties and activities of small-molecule compounds in large drug discovery datasets.  As increasingly sophisticated machine learning methods emerge along with higher quality chemical datasets, AI-driven drug discovery aims to decrease the time and costs associated with developing new therapeutics.  Yet, the applicability of these techniques remain in question.  These techniques typically require large datasets, which are almost never available in the drug discovery pipelines of novel compounds.  Further, the distinctive black-box character of DNNs makes it difficult for understanding the fundamental structure-function relationships that underpin their predictions, and provide tremendous value to drug design decisions.  Herein, we propose a project that will mathematically adapt the standard one-shot learning paradigm to the drug discovery problem.  Instead of attempting to recognize new classes, as typically done in one shot learning, the challenge is predicting the behavior of a molecule in a new experimental system.  We will evaluate our methods on three of benchmark datasets curated by MoleculeNet (Tox21, MUV, PCBA).  We plan to use a graph-convolutional architecture, which can process small-molecules as undirected graphs and parameterize their important domain-specific structures, ranging from individual atoms to functional groups.  We will pair our inferences with GNNExplainer, a recently developed methodology for providing interpretable explanations on any graph-based machine learning task.  In turn, we aim to develop a low-data approach for drug discovery that returns high-accuracy predictions and interpetable information that can help guide future drug design.
